# Killifish
## Author: Liu Yuhang, Jackson
## Description
There are 4 notebook files and 1 excel template with vba Macro.\
These files are used to do data analysis and visulizations for project Killifish.\
Learning_Score.ipynb, Difference_of_z_score_template.xlsm, and age_learning.ipynb are used for studying group learning score.\
calculate_mean_sd.ipynb and individual_learning_score.ipynb are used for studying individual (absolute) learning score.
### Learning_Score.ipynb
Detailed notes here: https://www.evernote.com/shard/s536/sh/1c87ad47-77bb-b3fe-9889-da07dd925fef/ZPDgLYV88Ki0NMOniHMq0GBWtOzr_I0zwxnDHlwsQGIKZ3G667TlF4B1mQ \
This notebook is used to read the excel files and calculate the difference of Z-score 
in 6 parameters with 'Day1-Day2', 'Day1-Day3', 'Day1-Day4', 'Day2-Day3', and 'Day2-Day4'. \
The results will be output as a csv file.
### Difference_of_z_score_template.xlsm
Detailed notes here: https://www.evernote.com/shard/s536/sh/1c87ad47-77bb-b3fe-9889-da07dd925fef/ZPDgLYV88Ki0NMOniHMq0GBWtOzr_I0zwxnDHlwsQGIKZ3G667TlF4B1mQ \
When open this file, you need to choose "Enable Macros". \
Copy the results from Learning_Score.ipynb, then just click the button "FIND GOOD Learner" for only once
(If click twice, the results will change), the Macro will colour the top 33% maximum in each column as red, 
and count the frequency of having good behaviours for each fish. \
If you want to try this again, please remember delete the last column, which generated by the button.
### age_learning.ipynb
This code is used to draw scatter plots and calculate correlation coefficients of fish lifespans and learning score.
### calculate_mean_sd.ipynb
Detailed notes here: https://www.evernote.com/shard/s536/sh/8940a260-a68c-5f9d-5b86-614f17a7c65c/2lOJkLZbSEYtwFmoN3ScQa0kIQhl68jWsyKqje0kJaa-9nCv0KYQ_6WibQ \
This code is used to calculate the mean and standard deviation of 10 files where each file records a 3-second periods data before LED.\
This Python script processes multiple CSV files containing data on various attributes like distance, velocity, acceleration, etc. \
It reads these files, calculates the mean and standard deviation of specified attributes, and then combines the results into a single CSV file \
The script expects CSV files named 'averaged_before_led_df_{number}.csv' in the specified folder. \
It outputs a file named 'combined_results.csv' containing the combined mean and standard deviation of specified attributes.
### individual_learning_score.ipynb
Detailed notes here: https://www.evernote.com/shard/s536/sh/8940a260-a68c-5f9d-5b86-614f17a7c65c/2lOJkLZbSEYtwFmoN3ScQa0kIQhl68jWsyKqje0kJaa-9nCv0KYQ_6WibQ \
This Python script is designed to analyze learning ability based on specified attributes.\
It reads data from an Excel file (during_led_path) and a CSV file (before_combined_path), then compares these to identify learning ability based on certain criteria. \
The script calculates whether the 'during' values exceed the mean plus standard deviation of the 'before' values for each attribute, and sums these to determine a total learning score.\
An Excel file named during_LED.xlsx containing 'during' data. \
A CSV file named before_combined_results.csv with combined results from a previous analysis.\
The output will be a CSV file named learning_ability_results.csv, detailing the learning ability per individual based on the specified attributes.
